---
layout: talk
title: "Developing Software using Python and Django to solve real life problems"
date: 2016-01-13 14:30:00
speaker: Anna Makarudze
location: Room 02
day: Wednesday
duration: 2 hours
---

Many programmers new to Python ask themselves these questions, soon after
learning the language: “Now that I have learnt Programming with Python, how can
I use it? What software programs can I develop with it?” While there is a lot
of information available on the internet on the examples of powerful
applications that have been developed with Python, many first time programmers
find themselves stuck as what they can develop and how they can develop their
idea in Python. My collaborative activity seeks to address this gap by focusing
on using Python and Django to develop web applications that address day-to-day
problems in the business world or community. Specifically, in my activity, I
will be looking at problem identification, proposing a solution/system to
address the problem identified; and implementation of the project. I will use
an example to show how each of these stages can be carried out to lead to the
development of a web application using Python and Django.  Despite having
worked with both Python and Django for less than a year, I argue that Python
and Django can be used to develop powerful and useful web applications to solve
most day-to-day problems in the business world. In conclusion, this
collaboration activity sheds light to new Python/Django developers on how they
can use the language to develop new and powerful web applications.
