---
layout: talk
date: 2016-01-27 11:00:00
title: "Image recognition via template matching"
speaker: Katie Barr
location: Room 01
day: Wednesday
duration: 40 minutes
---

Image recognition, also known as template matching, is a key component of
computer vision, and in this talk I will tell you how its done by describing
algorithms used by OpenCV. The purpose of the talk is to give a practical
introduction to this subject by describing both the theory and Python
implementation.

Whilst the algorithms I describe are very simple, and intuitively understood,
if you do not take care when implementing them you can end up with extremely
inefficient computations. This is because you effectively compare every pixel
in your image with every pixel in your template. These algorithms are called:
correlation, correlation coefficient, and squared difference, all with or
without normalisation. Normalisation is required to prevent false positives due
to bright spots in images. I will explain why computing the value directly can
lead to prohibitively slow computations. In order to efficiently implement the
algorithms we must use a theorem called the convolution theorem, which uses
Fourier Transforms. I give the Fourier Transform expressions for the
template-image comparison, and this is what we use in our implementation.

I will introduce the algorithms and explain how they work, and then briefly
introduce the Fourier Transform. This gives us everything we need to get
started implementing our own image recognition with help from scipy and numpy.
We will see how adjusting parameters in the algorithm can lead to very
impressive results- the demo showing a range of letters, with different
antialising, on different tiled backgrounds. By selecting how close your
candidate match must be to the template at different stages during the
algorithm, you can find matches with apparently large differences to the
template, with no false positives.

Whilst I will aim to ensure that the talk is comprehensible to those who
haven't met Fourier Transforms before by introducing them in detail, with
examples, I also hope those who have met them before will find the talk
interesting, as they may not have seen this application. Whilst I apply the
techniques to images, they can be used for anything which can be treated as a
function.
